ToDoWebApp is a **REST API** that lets you add, manage and complete your own ToDos.

It was created as a learning experience for Spring and Hibernate. It's a backend app that should be 'consumed' by a frontend REST client eg. Angular JS.
It supports basic CRUD operations via HTTP requests.
Stack used:
* **Spring Boot** 
* **Spring Security** for Basic Auth implementation and hashing passwords 
* **Hibernate** for ORM
* **H2 in-memory database** to store registered users and their ToDos
* **JUnit & Mockito** for unit and integration testing

Usage example:

`POST @ localhost:8080/users` with body:
```
{
	"username":"doublemc",
	"password":"password",
	"email":"doublemc@example.com"
}
```

registers new user and responses with:

```
HTTP.Status: 201 Created 
{
  "status": "User created."
}
```


Then you can use `POST @ localhost:8080/todos` using JSON again to create a new ToDo:
```
{
	"title":"default",
	"dueDate": [
		2000,
		10,
		10
	]
}
```

...and the server response is: (id is autogenerated by database)
```
HTTP.Status 201 Created
{
  "id": 1, 
  "title": "default",
  "completed": false,
  "dueDate": [
    2000,
    10,
    10
  ]
}
```

After creating a ToDo you can view all your ToDos by using `GET @ localhost:8080/todos` :

```
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "default",
    "completed": false,
    "dueDate": [
      2000,
      10,
      10
    ]
  }
]
```

If you completed a ToDo just use `PATCH @ localhost:8080/todos/{id}/complete`  (without any request body) and you will get `HTTP.Status 200 OK`.

Updating a ToDo can be achieved by using `PUT @ localhost:8080/todos/{id}` with the same JSON structure as in creating a new ToDo.

Removing a ToDo is easily achievable with `DELETE @ localhost:8080/todos/{id}` and server responses with `HTTP.Status 204 No Content`

If you don't like my API you can always delete your own account by using `DELETE @ localhost:8080/users` and it will delete from database currently logged in user (so called Principal in Spring Security).


All of the above requests (apart from creating a new user) require you to use Basic Authentication - provide username and password (that you used for account creation) to access those functionalities. If you don't use correct password or username is not found in the database you will get:
```
{
  "timestamp": 1487444087657,
  "status": 401,
  "error": "Unauthorized",
  "message": "Bad credentials",
  "path": "/todos/1"
}
```







 
